README.md, before:

# 🌦 Weather App (Python CLI)

A simple and clean **Python command-line weather application** that shows **real-time weather information** for any city using the **OpenWeather API**.  

---

## 🚀 Features

- Shows **temperature in °C**  
- Shows **weather description** (e.g., Clear, Rainy)  
- Shows **humidity**  
- Fetches **live data** from OpenWeather API  
- Beginner-friendly, clean Python code  

---

## 🧰 Tech & Concepts Used

- **Python**  
- **Requests library** (for API calls)  
- **JSON parsing**  
- **Command-line interface (CLI)**  
- **API integration**  

---

## 📦 Requirements

Install dependencies using pip:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
▶ How to Run
Open terminal or command prompt

Navigate to project folder

Run:

bash
Copy code
python weather.py
Enter city name, e.g.:

yaml
Copy code
Enter city name: Mumbai
See output:

makefile
Copy code
------ WEATHER REPORT ------
City: Mumbai
Temperature: 32°C
Weather: clear sky
Humidity: 70%
----------------------------
🌈 Sample Output

(Replace screenshot.png with your own screenshot of the app running)

🔑 API Key
Sign up at OpenWeather

Copy your API key

Replace "YOUR_API_KEY" in weather.py with your key

💻 How it Helps in Resume
Demonstrates API integration skills

Shows ability to work with Python & JSON

Clean CLI interface shows attention to user experience

Can be easily extended into GUI or Web App

📂 Folder Structure
cpp
Copy code
weather-app/
├── weather.py
├── README.md
├── requirements.txt
└── screenshot.png (optional)
📝 License
MIT License © Madhav

yaml
Copy code

---

# ✅ **Steps to Apply README.md to Your GitHub Repo**

### **Step 1 — Add README.md to your repo**
1. Save the above text as **README.md** in your local `weather-app` folder
2. If you want to add screenshot, save it as `screenshot.png` in the same folder

---

### **Step 2 — Commit changes and push to GitHub**
Open terminal in the `weather-app` folder and run:

```bash
git add README.md screenshot.png
git commit -m "Add polished README with screenshot"
git push origin main

Commit message:

Add screenshot of Weather App

README.md, after:

# 🌦 Weather App (Python CLI)

A simple and clean **Python command-line weather application** that shows **real-time weather information** for any city using the **OpenWeather API**.  

---

## 🚀 Features

- Shows **temperature in °C**  
- Shows **weather description** (e.g., Clear, Rainy)  
- Shows **humidity**  
- Fetches **live data** from OpenWeather API  
- Beginner-friendly, clean Python code  

---

## 🧰 Tech & Concepts Used

- **Python**  
- **Requests library** (for API calls)  
- **JSON parsing**  
- **Command-line interface (CLI)**  
- **API integration**  

---

## 📦 Requirements

Install dependencies using pip:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
▶ How to Run
Open terminal or command prompt

Navigate to project folder

Run:

bash
Copy code
python weather.py
Enter city name, e.g.:

yaml
Copy code
Enter city name: Mumbai
See output:

makefile
Copy code
------ WEATHER REPORT ------
City: Mumbai
Temperature: 32°C
Weather: clear sky
Humidity: 70%
----------------------------
🌈 Sample Output

(Replace screenshot.png with your actual app screenshot)

🔑 API Key
Sign up at OpenWeather

Copy your API key

Replace "YOUR_API_KEY" in weather.py with your key

💻 How it Helps in Resume
Demonstrates API integration skills

Shows ability to work with Python & JSON

Clean CLI interface shows attention to user experience

Can be easily extended into GUI or Web App

📂 Folder Structure
cpp
Copy code
weather-app/
├── weather.py
├── README.md
├── requirements.txt
└── screenshot.png (optional)
📝 License
MIT License © Madhav

yaml
Copy code

---

# ✅ **Steps to Apply This README.md**

1. Create a file in your project folder called `README.md`.  
2. Copy all the text above and paste it into the file.  
3. Add your screenshot to the folder and name it `screenshot.png` (or update the filename in the README).  
4. Open terminal in the folder:

```bash
git add README.md screenshot.png
git commit -m "Add polished README with screenshot"
git push origin main
